Okay everyone let's continue with modifying our application to be more mobile responsive.
So the next thing I want to update is our header component so our header right now is not optimized
for the mobile view.
So inside of our hairstyles I'm just going to modify the actual width and height to be a little bit
more aligned with the actual browser view inside of a mobile device now inside of this header container.
We are going to just paste in that same media query that we had before because we're using the same
media query in any of our mobile style changes.
So here what I'm going to do is I'm going to write it so that what I want to set in terms of the actual
header container is I want to shrink the height to 60 pixels instead of 70 pixels just literally shaving
off 10 pixels here.
I want to make sure that there's some padding all around the header of 10 pixels and then I'm going
to have a margin bottom of 20 pixels so that we push the content down with our new header.
So with that we need to now modify the actual size of the components inside of the header but the header
is shaped more like how I want it to be now inside of the actual logo container.
I am going to add in this media query again and what I want to change is I want the width of this logo
to be way smaller so I only want it to be fit 50 pixels and then I don't want any padding anymore.
I just want a padding of zero.
So now if we go back and we see we see that our logo is more aligned with where we want it to be inside
of this header Now I also want to make sure that the options container.
So that section containing the option links we have that navigate us to different web pages.
I want to make sure that that is now taking up more of the space of the header than before before it
only took up 50 percent of the total width of the header because with so much real estate space with
a web view instead I'm going to do a width of 80 percent because the only other thing on this browser
page when we're in this mobile view or in any view in fact is just the logo.
So now with this with set this way we have way more space as we can see in fact everything still works
which is really great for us.
We just need to make sure to update our views like our home page to also be responsive.
Now what it is that I want to change is I want the menu item to fit in a nicer way.
So what we can do is go into our menu item styles and modify them so that they have a similar media
query and then render a different shape on the actual menu item container.
So as you remember we set the height based on this size property which does dictate to it how big it
should be based on which image it is.
Because when you remember inside of our web view the men and women sections are larger than the three
other sections that we have now.
What we want to do here is we want to actually modify this height value so that it stays pretty consistent
regardless of size.
So what we can do is at the end append our media screen query and we'll just say is simply height 200
pixels now media queries have a higher specificity than anything else inside of our styles.
So no matter what styles inside of this here the media query if it has the same style will always over
write the styles here because media queries always have a higher specificity order than regular selectors.
So now if we go back we'll see that our elements are aligned much better because the heights are statically
200 pixels and the width will always adjust so the screen will try and fit these elements on the page
in the right order that they have access to.
And then the moment that a new one starts on a new page it fills the remaining space but the height
is always set to a specific static two hundred pixels.
So with that we now have a mobile view now our home page is set up.
The next thing that we need to modify is our shop page our shop page is going to be a little bit more
complicated because our shop page it doesn't look terrible.
We have these elements but the problem with this is that this item you have to actually click it in
order to see the add to cart which you'd then have to click instead with a mobile view.
This button seems too small in order to just put here the style and the actual design needs it to be
a little bit more deliberate in how we can actually add items because we want our users to be able to
add items as easily as possible.
So what we're going to modify is both the collection preview as well as are actual collection item.
So let's go back to our application code and what we need to do is go to the collection items styles.
Now I do think actually I have a slight typo in our collection item here.
I accidentally put collection styles dot styles but A6 this should actually be a collection item.
Dot styles such as so if we make that modification we also have to make sure that we update it here.
Now mine automatically updated it for me because my vest code is intelligent like that.
If yours is not you just gotta make sure to modify the place where you imported all of these stock components
in.
So that is pointing to the right route.
Just a little typo.
Right.
These things happen to everybody.
So inside of our collection items styles what we're going to do is we are going to go into this collection
item container and we are going to modify how large this width will be based on the actual mobile view
so inside of here I want the width to be 40 view with meaning that it takes up 40 percent of the total
width of the full view.
Then I need to overwrite some of these hover features because these hover features I don't want inside
of my mobile view with our mobile view.
I don't care about the hover.
You don't actually hover that much with touch as you're used to with the mobile.
So what I'm gonna say is that the image just unset the opacity unset pretty much says that this was
never set in the first place.
So there's actually no image styles here on the hover effect of the image.
When you're inside of this medium sized for any buttons in here I also want to unset the opacity as
well.
So now if we go back to our application we'll see that we're looking at the wrong file.
This is probably because we didn't save this file so once my vest code actually updated this route it
didn't actually manually save the file for me so I had to manually make that save.
And now here we'll see this looks a little bit more tightly coupled because the width is larger.
The only reason it's still stacking like this is because we need to update our actual collection preview
view.
So what we'll do here is we will go to our collections preview styles and inside of the preview container
we need to write our media query so let's copy back our old media query here.
And inside we are going to say that I want this now to have a line items property so this allows us
to have everything centered when ever our content is inside of this display flex.
Now I know that this is a lot of CSX that we haven't touched upon before.
If you're unfamiliar with CSX this might be completely new to you.
Honestly this CSX is pretty extensive in terms of what rules there are.
I'm going to link the Flex box ruling documentation for you.
It's actually an amazing resource to read through because it's really a matter of where the more you
practice it the more that you'll see it's really comprehensive and it's difficult for me to cover inside
of a course on react because I'll have to spend so much time on actual CSX things.
So if this gets confusing for you at any point I will definitely include a version of our application
where everything is converted to be mobile friendly for you.
Otherwise you can pause the video and read up on some of these styling rules.
If my explanations are not fully clear and you don't have the full context of everything but it's really
just a matter of doing this assess on your own with practice right.
So one of the other things that we have to do after we did this a line items is we need to modify our
preview container as well so that instead of being a display flex what it will be is a display grid.
Now this is a new CSX feature that I will also link the documentation for and this is another version
of display flex.
We've actually used display grid before inside of our application and it literally just lets us place
elements inside of whatever this top level component is in a grid like shape so here.
I'm gonna say grid template is always going to just have columns where it's one F R one that far if
you remember from that lesson on CSX grids really quickly.
One half hour just means whatever space is remaining inside of this screen meaning that there will always
be essentially columns and the two columns here will each take up one full portion of the application
which means that they are equally 50 percent of what space is available inside of this preview container.
And then I also want a grid gap of 15 pixels so grid gap is pretty much just the spacing between these
elements.
So with this now we see that our application looks more like that grid I was telling you about right.
There's always two columns and they always take up one f r of space they're also 40 of you with in size
and there's a 15 pixel gap in between all of these items.
So now our application looks way closer to what we need it to be.
Now the only thing missing is our actual button.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna go back to our collection item styles and we're going to modify
the button itself so that the button is always displayed whenever we're in a mobile view we're gonna
say that the display is block instead of display none.
So block is the default you can do blocker inline block.
We're going to make sure that the opacity is zero point nine.
We're also going to set a mean with value where we unset it.
The reason why we have to unset it even though it's not here is because the button leverages custom
button and custom button is a custom button container with a min width of one hundred and sixty five
pixel but that's too big for mobile view.
That's pretty much half our screen.
So we just want to unset it and we also want to modify the padding so that what it will do is it'll
set a top value of 0 10 pixels on the right zero on the bottom and then 10 pixels on the left so this
way we're getting 0 10 pixels 0 10 pixels.
In fact you don't even need this this syntax is also the same way if you just put two values for patting
it saying 0 for top bottom 10 pixels left right.
And now if we save this we'll actually see that our button is always present.
If we click this we'll see that it still works.
Our items are being added to our checkout our collection preview is pretty close to what we actually
wanted to look like
now.
At this point I definitely encourage you to take a crack at trying to modify the styles for the rest
of this yourself.
It's a good exercise to maybe work on some CSF that we haven't really touched upon too much of in this
course because this is a react course once you've played around with the styles you can always check
back to the get hub for what it is that we have done.
Now I will also include a get hub link of everything we've done up until this point right now so you
have something to reference against but just like with all the other exercises that we did.
This is a great chance to take some time of your own to play around with some styling.
So good luck with that and always refer to the completed version and see how your styles match up to
mine.
Again mine is just my own attempt at the solution right.
It's totally up to you how you want your application to look in a mobile view.
So with that.
Good luck with the exercise and I'll see you in the next lesson.